In a lot in a lot of cases, right,
once that page loads, trying to think of
all the things that could happen that
effectively cause change on the page.
API requests, any kind of event a mouse
move, click, whatever you've registered.
Click event listeners for some of the more
common ones that will kind of come through
if you are getting fancy with client
side routing, that could be another one.
Right, you have a stream of route changes,
right?
But generally speaking,
events are a pretty common one.
If you think about under the hood
prior to the Fetch API, right,
XML HTTP requests had events, your route
changes, probably listening to events.
Events are basically the bread and
butter of our actual UIs.
So just like we have have of and
from, we have one called fromEvent.
And it creates an observable
from an event.
And it's looks somewhat similar
to an event listener, right?
So on top, I have basically an event
listener where we addEventListener click
and we say console.login.
With our observable,
we separate those two things.
We separate the creation of
the subscription to the event, and
then what we want to do with it, right?
And so again, this gives us the ability to
basically have one event listener that we
can use multiple places, different
things can subscribe to those events.
Like I said before, one of the interesting
parts about observables is that each get
their own subscriptions, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4.
In this case, those will be the events
as they come through, right?
And one of the things we can kind of take
a look at later is there are ways to kind
of replay events that have happened,
if you need to catch up or
stuff along those lines there are
operators that will allow you to do that.
But generally speaking, this allows
you to separate what to do with
a subscription from
the subscription itself.
So it does take, if you do need to modify
that event at all though, and you wanna
say, okay, listen, I always want the event
target value in this case, you can pass it
a function that will go and do something
to that event upon subscribing to it.
However later we'll see that you can
take observables, you can map them.
A lot of things you can do with arrays,
you can also do with observables.
Just like in the fourth
dimension effectively and
have some of those in place.
There are a few more that we're not
gonna get into today cuz they don't
necessarily apply to us in quote
unquote front end engineering.
But they are kind of useful and
I just wanna put into your brain, so
that you're aware that they exist, so
you don't try to write them yourself.
There is one called bindCallback.
And this is super useful if you're
using node js, for instance.
Right, which basically deals with,
you know how node takes the errors,
the first argument and
then the results is the second argument.
It's basically a helper function
that will take the kind of
node style of callbacks and
turn it into an observable for you.
There is another one that's kind of
in its own separate module in rxjs,
called fromFetch.
You can take a lucky guess what it does,
is it creates an observable
using the Fetch API, right?
You're like isn't that a promise?
Yes, but it's a promise that has
a few interesting things like
the ability to abort the request,
so on and so forth.
So it depends, if you're using
a library like Axios or what have you,
you might choose to just use from promise.
If you're using the Fetch API directly,
then you might choose to use this as well.
Yes, a lot of times a lot of
our API fetching libraries tend
to be promises and you can use from and
create the promise.
But this is also another option if you
If you're using the Fetch API directly.
We will use this one later today,
we will not use bind callback cuz
there's just not a use case for it.